

I am the editor-in-chief of the International Journal of Speech Technology (IJST) and founder of a software company that is developing code libraries for accessing open-access scientific research data and publications.  We're trying to use technology to  promote more rigorous adherence to protocols such as FAIR Sharing, Research Objects, and the Data Curation Network; and documenting research data and methodology via frameworks such as MIBBI (Minimum Information for Biological and Biomedical Investigations), BioCoder (which is a project of Microsoft Research India), SciXML, SciData, schema.org/Dataset, or DataPackageR (which was BMGF-founded).  

We are currently developing software in conjunction with several publishers and biotechnology companies that host science portals, developing tools such as dataset browsers and API clients.  In general, these projects involve researchers bundling raw data with metadata about their scientific project, and also potentially with machine-readable full-text research papers and GUI-related code.  Our technology parses the supplemental info (metadata, full-text, and GUI workspace definitions) via code libraries and/or plugins that can be embedded in scientific software.  Each individual publisher's portal, document repository, or data hosting service can have its own "module," built around a "Scientific Data Repository Model" (SDRM) which represents the details of how that specific resource conveys research data and metadata.

I am writing to Gates Open Research because we'd like to develop an SDRM module for Gates Open Research.  Such a module would formally represent the guidelines summarized in gatesopenresearch.org/for-authors/data-guidelines, so that research metadata and access technology could document how the published research fits within those recommendations.  For instance, the technology could encapsulate API and/or digital-notebook access to the 5 listed approved general repositories and several more specific recommended resources; code annotation and workflows as per the "Software source code" recommendations; data citation; XML/JATS text mining for Gates Open Research articles; de-identification/anonymization; text and speech encoding for transcription/annotation; and formal documentation of research methods as specified by FAIRsharing, MIBBI, Springer Protocols, BioCoder, or other lab-protocol models.  The libraries implementing an SDRM for Gates Open Research could then be used both by BMGF-supported scientists preparing articles and by researchers reading publications on Gates Open Research.  We could, for example, implement special-purpose PDF viewers with code for explicitly interacting with the Gates Open Research corpus and the documents and supplemental material hosted there (this is an approach we've taken with other SDRM modules). 



  guidelines.  We are adapting BioCoder, a code library developed by Microsoft Research India for modeling laboratory protocols.  BioCoder is similar to MIBBI (Minimum Information for Biological and Biomedical Investigations), but instead of static experiment descriptions BioCoder employs executable computer code, so it may also be used to orchestrate "in silico" workflows.  Our models for using BioCoder-like protocols to describe data sets is based on DataPackageR, which was a BMGF-funded project released in 2019 (along with other tools developed from the Vaccine Immunology Statistical Center,  particularly in the context of cytometry/serology).  

